LevelClass$Class$Artificer$Barbarian#
AbilityDesc$Class$Level 1: Spellcasting
You have learned how to channel magical energy through objects. See the Player's Handbook for the rules on spellcasting. The information below details how you use those rules with Artificer spells, which appear in the Artificer spell list later in the class's description.

Tools Required. You produce your Artificer spells through tools. You can use Thieves' Tools, Tinker's Tools, or another kind of Artisan's Tools with which you have proficiency as a Spellcasting Focus, and you must have one of those focuses in hand when you cast an Artificer spell (meaning the spell has an M component when you cast it).

Cantrips. You know two Artificer cantrips of your choice. Acid Splash and Prestidigitation are recommended.

Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can replace one of your cantrips from this feature with another Artificer cantrip of your choice.

When you reach Artificer levels 10 and 14, you learn another Artificer cantrip of your choice, as shown in the Cantrips column of the Artificer Features table.

Spell Slots. The Artificer Features table shows how many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+ spells. You regain all expended slots when you finish a Long Rest.

Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list of level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast with this feature. To start, choose two level 1 Artificer spells. Cure Wounds and Grease are recommended.

The number of spells on your list increases as you gain Artificer levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells column of the Artificer Features table. Whenever that number increases, choose additional Artificer spells until the number of spells on your list matches the number on the table. The chosen spells must be of a level for which you have spell slots. For example, if you're a level 5 Artificer, your list of prepared spells can include six Artificer spells of levels 1 and 2 in any combination.

If another Artificer feature gives you spells that you always have prepared, those don't count against the number of spells you can prepare with this feature, but those spells otherwise count as Artificer spells for you.

Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can change your list of prepared spells, replacing any of the spells there with other Artificer spells for which you have spell slots.

Spellcasting Ability. Intelligence is your spellcasting ability for your Artificer spells., Artificer level 2 abilities, level 3, level 4, level 5, level 6, etc

Level 1: Tinker's Magic
You know the Mending cantrip.

As a Magic action while holding Tinker's Tools, you can create one item in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of yourself, choosing the item from the following list:

Ball Bearings
Basket
Bedroll
Bell
Blanket
Block and Tackle
Bottle, Glass
Bucket
Caltrops
Candle
Crowbar
Flask
Grappling Hook
Hunting Trap
Jug
Lamp
Manacles
Net
Oil
Paper
Parchment
Pole
Pouch
Rope
Sack
Shovel
Spikes, Iron
String
Tinderbox
Torch
Vial
See the rules for the item in the Player's Handbook. The item lasts until you finish a Long Rest, at which point it vanishes.

You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.$Level 2: Replicate Magic Item

You have learned arcane plans that you use to make magic items.

Plans Known. When you gain this feature, choose four plans to learn from the Magic Item Plans (Artificer Level 2+) table (see the Dungeon Master's Guide for the items' descriptions). Bag of Holding, Cap of Water Breathing, Sending Stones, and Wand of the War Mage are recommended. Whenever you gain an Artificer level, you can replace one of the plans you know with a new plan for which you qualify.

You learn another plan of your choice when you reach certain Artificer levels, as shown in the Plans Known column of the Artificer Features table. When you choose a plan to learn, you choose it from any Magic Item Plans table for which you qualify; your qualification is based on your Artificer level.

Creating an Item. When you finish a Long Rest, you can create one or two different magic items if you have Tinker's Tools in hand. Each item is based on one of the plans you know for this feature.

If a created item requires Attunement, you can attune yourself to it the instant you create it. If you decide to attune to the item later, you must do so using the normal process for Attunement.

When you reach certain Artificer levels specified in the Magic Items column of the Artificer Features table, the number of magic items you can create at the end of a Long Rest increases. Each item you create must be based on a different plan you know.

You can't have more magic items from this feature than the number shown in the Magic Items column of the Artificer Features table for your level. If you try to exceed your maximum number of magic items for this feature, the oldest item vanishes, and then the new item appears.

Duration. A magic item created by this feature functions as the normal magic item, except its magic isn't permanent; when you die, the magic item vanishes after 1d4 days. If you replace a plan you know with a new plan, any magic item created with the replaced plan immediately vanishes.

If an item that you created with this feature is a container, such as a Bag of Holding, and it vanishes, its contents harmlessly appear in and around its space.

Spellcasting Focus. You can use any Wand or Weapon created by this feature as a Spellcasting Focus in lieu of using a set of Artisan's Tools.

Crafting More Magic Items
The Replicate Magic Item feature isn't the only way for an Artificer to make magic items. The Dungeon Master's Guide provides rules for characters—not just Artificers—who want to make magic items of all sorts. Though many different characters can make magic items, Artificers can do it faster than others; each Artificer subclass improves a character's speed at making items of a certain category.

When an Artificer crafts a magic item using the normal rules in the Dungeon Master's Guide, the character gains no special connection to that item. Class features that refer to items created by your Replicate Magic Item feature don't apply to items you craft by other means.

Magic Item Plans (Artificer Level 2+)
Magic Item Plan	Attunement
Alchemy Jug	No
Bag of Holding	No
Cap of Water Breathing	No
Common magic item that isn't a Potion, a Scroll, or cursed*	Varies
Goggles of Night	No
Manifold Tool	Yes
Repeating Shot	Yes
Returning Weapon	No
Rope of Climbing	No
Sending Stones	No
Shield +1	No
Wand of Magic Detection	No
Wand of Secrets	No
Wand of the War Mage +1	Yes
Weapon +1	No
Wraps of Unarmed Power, +1	No
*You can learn this option multiple times and must select a different item each time; each item selected counts as a different plan.
Magic Item Plans (Artificer Level 6+)
Magic Item Plan	Attunement
Armor +1	No
Boots of Elvenkind	No
Boots of the Winding Path	Yes
Cloak of Elvenkind	Yes
Cloak of the Manta Ray	Yes
Dazzling Weapon	Yes
Eyes of Charming	Yes
Eyes of Minute Seeing	No
Gloves of Thievery	No
Helm of Awareness	No
Lantern of Revealing	No
Mind Sharpener	Yes
Necklace of Adaptation	Yes
Pipes of Haunting	No
Repulsion Shield	No
Ring of Swimming	No
Ring of Water Walking	No
Sentinel Shield	No
Spell-Refueling Ring	Yes
Wand of Magic Missiles	No
Wand of Web	Yes
Weapon of Warning	Yes
Magic Item Plans (Artificer Level 10+)
Magic Item Plan	Attunement
Armor of Resistance	Yes
Dagger of Venom	No
Elven Chain	No
Ring of Feather Falling	Yes
Ring of Jumping	Yes
Ring of Mind Shielding	Yes
Shield, +2	No
Uncommon Wondrous Item that isn't cursed*	Varies
Wand of the War Mage, +2	Yes
Weapon, +2	No
Wraps of Unarmed Power, +2	No
*You can learn this option multiple times and must select a different item each time; each item selected counts as a different plan.
Magic Item Plans (Artificer Level 14+)
Magic Item Plan	Attunement
Armor, +2	No
Arrow-Catching Shield	Yes
Flame Tongue	Yes
Rare Wondrous Item that isn't cursed*	Varies
Ring of Free Action	Yes
Ring of Protection	Yes
Ring of the Ram	Yes
*You can learn this option multiple times and must select a different item each time; each item selected counts as a different plan.#
AbilityDesc$Class$Level 1: Rage
You can imbue yourself with a primal power called Rage, a force that grants you extraordinary might and resilience. You can enter it as a Bonus Action if you aren't wearing Heavy armor.

You can enter your Rage the number of times shown for your Barbarian level in the Rages column of the Barbarian Features table. You regain one expended use when you finish a Short Rest, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.

While active, your Rage follows the rules below.

Damage Resistance. You have Resistance to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing damage.

Rage Damage. When you make an attack using Strength—with either a weapon or an Unarmed Strike—and deal damage to the target, you gain a bonus to the damage that increases as you gain levels as a Barbarian, as shown in the Rage Damage column of the Barbarian Features table.

Strength Advantage. You have Advantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws.

No Concentration or Spells. You can't maintain Concentration, and you can't cast spells.

Duration. The Rage lasts until the end of your next turn, and it ends early if you don Heavy armor or have the Incapacitated condition. If your Rage is still active on your next turn, you can extend the Rage for another round by doing one of the following:

Make an attack roll against an enemy.
Force an enemy to make a saving throw.
Take a Bonus Action to extend your Rage.
Each time the Rage is extended, it lasts until the end of your next turn. You can maintain a Rage for up to 10 minutes.

Level 1: Unarmored Defense
While you aren't wearing any armor, your base Armor Class equals 10 plus your Dexterity and Constitution modifiers. You can use a Shield and still gain this benefit.

Level 1: Weapon Mastery
Your training with weapons allows you to use the mastery properties of two kinds of Simple or Martial Melee weapons of your choice, such as Greataxes and Handaxes. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can practice weapon drills and change one of those weapon choices.

When you reach certain Barbarian levels, you gain the ability to use the mastery properties of more kinds of weapons, as shown in the Weapon Mastery column of the Barbarian Features table.$Level 2: Danger Sense
You gain an uncanny sense of when things aren't as they should be, giving you an edge when you dodge perils. You have Advantage on Dexterity saving throws unless you have the Incapacitated condition.

Level 2: Reckless Attack
You can throw aside all concern for defense to attack with increased ferocity. When you make your first attack roll on your turn, you can decide to attack recklessly. Doing so gives you Advantage on attack rolls using Strength until the start of your next turn, but attack rolls against you have Advantage during that time.#
Level$Level$1$2$3#
Select$Species$Aarakocra$Dragonborn#
AbilityDesc$Species$Ability Scores: Choose one of: (a) Choose any +2; choose any other +1 (b) Choose three different +1

Creature Type: Humanoid

Size: Medium

Speed: 30 feet, Fly equal to your walking speed

Flight. Because of your wings, you have a flying speed equal to your walking speed. You can't use this flying speed if you're wearing medium or heavy armor.

Talons. You have talons that you can use to make unarmed strikes. When you hit with them, the strike deals 1d6 + your Strength modifier slashing damage, instead of the bludgeoning damage normal for an unarmed strike.

Wind Caller. Starting at 3rd level, you can cast the gust of wind spell with this trait, without requiring a material component. Once you cast the spell with this trait, you can't do so again until you finish a long rest. You can also cast the spell using any spell slots you have of 2nd level or higher.

Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spellcasting ability for when you cast gust of wind with this trait (choose when you select this race).

Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and one other language that you and your DM agree is appropriate for your character.$Creature Type: Humanoid

Size: Medium (about 5-7 feet tall)

Speed: 30 feet

Draconic Ancestry. Your lineage stems from a dragon progenitor. Choose the kind of dragon from the Draconic Ancestors table. Your choice affects your Breath Weapon and Damage Resistance traits as well as your appearance.

Draconic Ancestors
Dragon	Damage Type
Black	Acid
Blue	Lightning
Brass	Fire
Bronze	Lightning
Copper	Acid
Gold	Fire
Green	Poison
Red	Fire
Silver	Cold
White	Cold
Breath Weapon. When you take the Attack action on your turn, you can replace one of your attacks with an exhalation of magical energy in either a 15-foot Cone or a 30-foot Line that is 5 feet wide (choose the shape each time). Each creature in that area must make a Dexterity saving throw (DC 8 plus your Constitution modifier and Proficiency Bonus). On a failed save, a creature takes 1d10 damage of the type determined by your Draconic Ancestry trait. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage. This damage increases by 1d10 when you reach character levels 5 (2d10), 11 (3d10), and 17 (4d10).

You can use this Breath Weapon a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.

Damage Resistance. You have Resistance to the damage type determined by your Draconic Ancestry trait.

Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 60 feet.

Draconic Flight. When you reach character level 5, you can channel draconic magic to give yourself temporary flight. As a Bonus Action, you sprout spectral wings on your back that last for 10 minutes or until you retract the wings (no action required) or have the Incapacitated condition. During that time, you have a Fly Speed equal to your Speed. Your wings appear to be made of the same energy as your Breath Weapon. Once you use this trait, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest.#
